docs - update permissions troubleshooting (#23937)
metabase/metabase: docs/troubleshooting-guide/collection-permissions.md

---
title: Troubleshooting collection permissions
---

# Troubleshooting collection permissions

> Use this guide if you're having trouble with permissions to _view or edit_ questions or dashboards.

Reviewer: Should we flip this? Collections permissions are the issue, but would people know that it's a collection permissions issue? Or should we frame this page as troubleshooting viewing and editing questions and dashboards?

If someone has the wrong level of access to the tables, rows, or columns that are displayed in a question or dashboard, see [Troubleshooting data permissions][troubleshooting-data-permissions].

## People can't access a dashboard from a collection that they have permissions for

1. Check where each _question_ on the dashboard is saved (i.e., which collection).

> 2. If the saved question is in a collection that people don't have access to, you can either:

Reviewer: We should also address the block permissions scenario for paid plans.

    - Grant people permission to the collection.
    - Move the saved question to a collection with broader permissions.

**Explanation**

> Moving a dashboard to a collection with permissions does not automatically move all of the saved questions into the same collection. If the saved questions are stored in a restrictive collection (such as someone's personal folder), then other people will not be able to view those cards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moving a dashboard to a different collection doesn't move the dashboard's questions into that collection. If the saved questions are stored in a restricted collection (such as someone's personal folder), then other groups won't be able to view those cards. You'll need to move those questions into a collection that your target groups have permissions for.
```
We should be mindful/consistent that permissions are applied to groups, not people.
